You got this!
Out!
You can do this!
Everyone was antsy during the opening ceremonies,
One more!
but they don't seem as nervous as they were during yesterday's practice.
Okay. Okay, got it.
Thanks.
What's the matter?
One more!
That was from Shimada at the Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium.
Apparently, the matches are moving much faster than expected.
Especially in the beginning, it's really important that we warm up properly.
You got this!
I was hoping we'd have some more time to do it.
Do it again!
It's about ten minutes to the Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium by bus.
All right, let's get going.
Yes, sir.
All right!
Mommy, I have to go pee.
Hurry up and go.
When's the next bus?
There, there... You must be hungry.
In four minutes.
Gonna hit the can.
Me too.
I'll watch your stuff.
Thanks!
You're setting yourself up to be late.
Hey, stop that!
You first-years have a lot of stuff.
I'll carry some of it.
No, no. It's okay.
These nerves are going to kill me if I don't keep busy with something.
Thanks.
All right, stay calm.
Talking to yourself, Daichi?
Shut up.
Azumane, you forgot your pass.
Huh? Oh, sorry!
You won't be able to go inside without this.
Everyone's still stiff as can be, but that's to be expected.
Also, I need to calm down.
Huh?
What? You forget something?
No, it's not that. This bag...
It looks the same as mine, but it's different.
Huh?
I don't have my shoes!
Clench your fists tight enough to leave marks
Now, go bask in the orange glow
!
Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu !
Haikyuu
Sweating harder than ever has led us to the unknown territory of this high stage
The crowd's on their side and our chances are slim, so we could just skip out
But if the fear of getting hurt is keeping your wings in check
You may as well be a stuffed bird
If a person tries to live their life without getting a taste of their dreams and passions
They'll be torn by the heartbreak
But our goosebumps just won't go away
Our very souls are burning bright Beyond our limits
Awaits a land Of thrilling competition
Unleash everything you've got
Winning or losing doesn't even seem to matter
When you're in the zone and everything flows
In glorious slow-motion Now, go all-out!
Episode Ten: Battle Lines Episode Ten: Battle Lines
Episode Ten: Battle Lines
So it got switched out somewhere?
It's the orange-colored one from that kids' clothing store, right?
It was Natsu's, but it's sturdy and was the perfect size...
While you were in the bathroom,
I looked away from your stuff for just a second.
That must've been when...
I'm so sorry!
It's not your fault, Yamaguchi!
Okay, calm down.
I'll call the gym where we were doing our warmups.
Should we go buy another pair?
If it comes down to it.
Sorry!
Don't worry. It's not like anyone's dying.
Hey, where's your phone?
It's inside that bag!
Nice idea, Kageyama.
Hello?
Apparently no one's turned in a bag.
A kid accidentally took it.
His mom said they'd wait at the gym.
Thank goodness.
It's not far.
But Shimada went to pick up the neighborhood crew.
I'll go.
Huh?
In that case, I should probably go.
I'm pretty confident when it comes to stamina and speed.
I won't take too long,
but I know you'll feel a little lost without me.
You'll just have to get used to that, however.
Right.
I'll be back before the match starts.
We're sorry!
This might be asking too much, but try not to worry while I'm gone, okay?
Thanks, Shimizu. We're counting on you.
Kiyoko, please be safe.
Hearing you talk like that is making me even more nervous, so just stop.
Shimizu will be just fine.
Come on! We need to concentrate on our match!
Let's get down there and warm up.
Right!
After practicing, and practicing, and practicing,
everything I'd worked so hard for ended so abruptly.
What did I do differently that time?
I could feel my leg cutting through the air, but it was suddenly met with something hard,
and I felt my chest tighten.
Don't give up!
One more lap!
Did you already decide on a club, Shimizu?
Any interest in becoming a manager for the volleyball team?
It could be that I feared that truth more than I was willing to admit.
Sure.
The volleyball team hadn't had a manager for a while,
so I picked up some things on my own.
The rules of the game, the referees' hand signals, how points were scored.
It felt nice to devote myself to something,
but it still sort of felt like I was on the outside.
I felt some relief, knowing that I wouldn't be out on the front lines.
But as time went on, gradually, the players stopped being just random people to me.
Fly Fly Listen up.
Compared to the floors we usually play on, the floors here will be harder to slide on.
You'll get hurt if you play like you usually do.
Work up a good sweat to get rid of some of that friction.
Yes, sir!
Umakita Thank you very much!
All right, let's go!
Yeah!
That ceiling's probably gonna cause more of a problem than I expected.
Huh?
Not only is this our first time here, but it's huge.
We need to expect that it's going to take them a little while to get used to the sense of distance.
Make sure you get the ball higher than usual!
Yessir!
So bright—
Come on! Be more careful!
Right!
Man, my hands take forever to warm up when I'm nervous.
Do you need some gloves?
Nah, I'll be fine.
Don't you ever get nervous?
I do.
But I'm not nervous right now.
The hell?
This is just another step toward our goal.
Damn you, you big shot!
Hurry up and come back to me, shoes!
I became a volleyball team manager on a whim.
There wasn't anyone filling that position before me,
so I thought they'd just go back to how things were if I ever left.
But...
I had to pass it on.
I had to entrust this position to someone new.
After practicing, and practicing, and practicing,
everything I'd worked so hard for ended so abruptly.
So what?
It's not that I'm admitting defeat.
It's not that I'm saying we're going to win.
I'm not going to be standing on the court,
nor am I going to be wearing a uniform.
But right now...
I have to take on this challenge!
This is my battle line right now.
Hitoka!
My shoes!
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!
I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry!
I'm pretty sure I can jump about five meters high now!
Really? I'll be looking forward to that, then.
All right, line up—
Let's go, Tsuba Academy!
Yeah!
My nerves... are about to kill me... so let's at least make sure we're being heard out there!
Stop making it sound like all we know how to do is yell.
Haikyuu!!
Karasuno Tsubakihara Miyagi Miyagi Karasuno Karasuno
The match between Karasuno High School
and Tsubakihara Academy is about to begin!
Let's have a good match!
To be honest, I was a bit worried with how nervous everyone was,
but they seem to be over it now.
Especially Hinata.
Maybe him losing his shoes was a blessing in disguise.
And it's all thanks to Shimizu.
Yeah!
You okay, Maruyama?
You look like you're the most nervous.
I'm okay!
I'm never going to repeat the nightmare where we were on the bus back home before I knew what happened!
You were insanely nervous for our first nationals last year.
All right, I want you to concentrate on splitting up their attacks with your serves.
We'll be able to deal with them as long as we can limit their attacks.
But don't take your eyes off of their number ten.
He'll hit the ball from the direction we're least expecting.
Yes, sir!
They're totally staring at us.
Those guys beat Shiratorizawa, right?
Let's not think about that.
Would you have preferred to play Shiratorizawa?
Nope!
Right?
We saw their match against Shiratorizawa at their qualifiers, and it's not like they crushed them.
Lucky breaks happen to exist in this world.
So basically, we're lucky that we're not going up against Ushiwaka!
Correct.
You sure are good at looking on the bright side.
It doesn't change the fact that they beat Shiratorizawa.
But that doesn't matter.
Maru's not the only one who doesn't want a repeat of last year.
Every team here has defeated another powerhouse school to qualify.
And those powerhouses that defeated other powerhouses may still disappear instantly.
In this first match,
the team that's overwhelmed up by their opponents and the crowd will disappear.
Hit 'em with a killer serve!
It's out!
Nice call!
Sorry.
It's okay. Just focus on the next point.
Lucky, lucky, Tsuba High! Lucky, lucky, Tsuba High!
Even the Smallest Stream Can Become a Great River
Karasuno Tsubakihara
Sorry!
Someone get it!
He served right into the spot where the back-row setter would cross paths with someone else.
He hit to that spot like it's nothing.
Daichi!
Nice receive.
The one we have to definitely look out for is their number four, Teradomari.
He's a tall guy at 190 cm, and he hits the ball even if the set isn't perfect.
His back row attack is pretty intense too.
Do whatever you can to make sure he doesn't get over your blocks.
Tera!
So high!
Good!
Get it!
Tanaka!
It's long!
Karasuno Tsubakihara Nice spike!
Sorry!
It's all right! Move on!
Got it!
Here he comes.
Their number ten.
Lucky, lucky, Tsuba High! Lucky, lucky, Tsuba High!
Even the Smallest Stream Can Become a Great River
Volleyball is a sport where the ball is usually in the air.
A sharp sense of spatial awareness is absolutely necessary.
But there's no doubt that their nerves and being in this gym for the first time are messing with that awareness.
And the one who is being affected the most...
is Kageyama, whose setting requires absolute precision.
Sorry.
I'll adjust.
Sorry, I'll need a little time.
I know.
Karasuno Tsubakihara
It's too long.
Nice save, Tanaka!
We've gotta keep things going...
...until Kageyama's accuracy is good to go!
You can definitely tell that Karasuno's playing a bit stiff.
Yes. It's rare to see Kageyama make very apparent mistakes.
The fact that Kageyama and Hinata didn't get to sync up before the match is gonna hurt.
Karasuno Tsubakihara
Teradomari drops the ball right into Karasuno's court.
He's got good awareness.
And the point gap widens.
Karasuno's setter's definitely off his game. Let's bait him.
There won't be any fast attacks coming! Keep concentrating on the left!
Why, though?
We're still gonna do fast attacks.
Fly Fly Got it!
Nice spike!
Yeah!
Damn it! They went for the left anyway!
I tried to bait them and got baited instead!
That one was about half a ball too short.
Too high.
Damn it! He actually made that miracle shot.
Come on, let that freak accident pass.
The hell was that?
That was awesome.
Just a little more.
Karasuno Tsubakihara
Even if you tell yourself that you're going to remain calm, panic will eventually hit you.
But if you let that overwhelm you, it's all over.
That's why we need to give them a shot in the arm a bit early.
Whoa, he's throwing Tadashi in pretty early today.
I probably won't be doing anything but serving at this tournament.
That's why I played out this scenario hundreds of times in my head.
Listen up, Tadashi.
Don't wait for your nerves to calm down.
Practice making yourself calm.
And the best way to do that is giving yourself a reset point.
During your warmups, look for something that'll be your calm-down spot.
It can be anything from a poster to even an emergency exit sign.
For now, use that bag as your reset signal.
Once my emotions are reset, I need to take aim.
My target is behind their ace...
To hit there, I have to send the ball over that part of the net.
It veered toward their libero.
Damn, I hesitated.
He messed up the receive.
Echigo, finish it off!
Three blockers!
Nice!
Hell yes!
Their first block of the day!
You took way too long to decide who would receive.
Right!
Do it again, Yamaguchi!
Yes!
Yes, yes, yes!
Just how much did that kid improve in such a short period of time?
One more!
Maiko!
There!
Tsubakihara Academy finally ended his run.
But it looks like Karasuno's finally gaining momentum.
All right! Let's get right into those double digits!
Karasuno Tsubakihara Yeah!
Tsukishima!
Nice spike, Tsukishima!
All right.
Nice job! Keep it up!
But we can't seem to close the point gap.
Okay, I think I got it.
Set to me, set to me, set to me, set to me, set to me, set to me!
I don't think Hinata ever gets scared of messing up.
And the same goes for him.
Right...
on the mark!
Yes!
I apologize if I kept you waiting.
So what if the pressure's on?
I don't need any help from on high
So what if I'm an egotist?
I just want to win, I don't have a reason why
I'll take on every challenge
I'll throw off any shadows of doubt
This is my chance to overcome my limits
I've gone all-out Conquered my fears
Turned them into conviction
Now fly high, higher, higher, to the top
Being so torn at the taste of defeat
Shed the tears that let our potential flower
If you try to give up, I'll just laugh it off
I don't know the meaning of the phrase
If you say it's too hard, I'll just laugh it off
Episode Eleven: A Chance to Extend the Rally
Next time: "A Chance to Extend the Rally."